- [Narrator] Now let's get into the debate of JSON vs. XML.
Now those who've already worked with XML before
already know that this is another way of exchanging data
between heterogeneous systems.
But, JSON is something that we are talking about right now
for this course, so we are stressing on why JSON is better.
But that's not how it works because JSON is going to
work well with certain systems;
XML may work well with its own set of systems.
It's like that. However, let's just talk about this.
Now, when you talk about JSON,
it's of course as we said earlier:
text-based, simple, and it is structured.
Now like extensive and mark-up language, yes,
it is language and platform independent; but, it's easy to
read and understand by both machines and humans.
Or, maybe I should've said it the other way around:
humans and machines. Okay, XML is a little harder to read.
Take a look at the 2 blocks of code that I have on my slide.
The left-hand side is adjacent representation,
and the right-hand side is an XML document.
When you look at the left-hand side,
you understand that it's talking something about the books.
Okay. Which means that it's a collection of books
that have been mentioned there.
On the right-hand side, you actually take a little more time
to figure that out-- that it is talking about books.
Because the data and the text that you are able to see--
the angle brackets on all of that--
they are the elements of XML. And that is the additional
stuff that goes in inside of an XML document.
So when you read JSON, yes it is definitely a little easier
to quickly understand what the reader is talking about.
So, that's the first thing. Next is,
when you talk about JSON structures,
now we saw simple data types: we saw strings, numbers,
booleans and their values; all of these data types
are so commonly used in the entire universe of
programming languages that we have today.
Every other programming language that you see
definitely knows these basic data types.
Even when you talk about JSON structures,
like a name value pair, or you have a JSON object,
or you have a JSON array, these are such
common data structures used across languages.
JSON is like a giant hashmap which has got multiple
key value pairs and the nesting can be to any level.
But when you talk about an XML,
XML has got a lot of data types.
It could have a start tag, an end tag, an element,
attributes, a schema, an XSD, a DTD, so it comes in with
a lot of chunks which are extra in addition to the data.
When it comes to an object-oriented system,
JSON is definitely going to be the choice to pick up
because it's very close to these object-oriented systems
and helps us to design the system a little better.
The next thing is, we said that XML has got DTDs,
schemas, and all of this extra information along with it,
so there is an overhead. JSON has no overhead,
and that's why when you quote it across systems,
it's definitely easier, it is faster, and it is way easier
to even convert it into the kind of object that you need
for your system for further processing.
Then you have JSON, which is based on Javascript,
we said that it is derived out of Javascript.
That's why, let's say, when you make ajax calls--
asynchronous calls--in your systems or in your applications,
and the data that you get, that's the output of that call.
It's very easy to render that data into the UI
or into the front-end pages very quickly.
But when it is an XML, it becomes a little tedious because
you have to enter it through the entire document and
find out certain elements from where you want to
pick up values and then attach it to the
document-object model of your front-end.
So it's a little difficult and tedious to do that with XML.
But having said all this, XML has its own advantages too.
Let's look back at that XML document we were looking at
before. You have this book element and it has got something
which has id="book1". That's an attribute.
An attribute always helps to specify metadata about the
element that you're trying to describe.
So when you have a schema; when you have a
defined, strict structure; every tag is already defined
in a document type definition.
Every tag will have certain number of attributes.
Every tag will have nesting only to a certain level, etc.
All of these rules are specified
in the document type definition.
And when it comes to these schemas and DTDs and attributes,
you have a rule set to write out the XML document; and
rules are good sometimes. Because imagine this situation:
You have this XML data being transported to, let's say,
ten systems and when you have a strict structure
to that XML document, it's definitely an assurance that
none of the systems are going to tamper with it.
But that's not the case with JSON.
If I quote it across multiple systems,
I can definitely add key and value pairs the way I want.
Yes so in that way definitely XML is at an advantage.
Next is, when you want to provide a very good data model
into your systems, you are supposed to definitely go for
XML rather than going for JSON.
JSON does not have the capabilities for a
well-modeled structure. XML can contain special data types.
For example, it can help you to port audio files,
audio data, or it can also help you to transfer
activeX components and all of these special data types
which JSON does not possess the capability for.
And then you also have something which is called an XSL,
which is used to beautify an XML document.
XSL is a very powerful language because it can actually
retrieve portions of the XML document, beautify it,
and then display it for the customer.
Not only that, XML definitely has this behavior to give you
a lot of views for the same piece of data.
You can look at the same chunk of data
in a number of different ways.
That's something that XML can do for you.
So, this debate is actually never-ending
and it's going to definitely take a long time
to decide which one of them is better.
But let's not say which one of them is better.
Let's just say that when it comes to data interchange,
JSON does the best job; and when it comes to modeling
and when it comes to special data types
when you have requirements of looking at the data in a
number of ways, then yeah, XML will do that better.
It's a well-documented markup, and let's understand
that that is the job it does best.